Revise Configuration Structure spec (#57)
riscv/configuration-structure: riscv-configuration-structure-draft.adoc

standard, so implementations made to this draft specification will
likely not conform to the future standard.*

> == Rational

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Rationale
```

It is generally useful for software to be able to programmatically

> determine the capabilities of the hardware it is running on. The
> software needs the information to discover the core and hart feature
> availability for executing the different initialization code paths,
> particularly when the software runs on a socketed system that supports
> the pluggable cores. External

Reviewer: ```suggestion
determine the capabilities of the hardware it is running on.
Software needs information to discover core and hart feature
availability for executing different initialization code paths,
particularly when the software runs on a socketed system that supports
pluggable cores. External
```

parameters of RISC-V standards beyond what can be easily put into CSRs.
The structure is called a Configuration Structure (CS).

== Representation of Configuration Structure 

=== Schema of Configuration Structure

> The schema of Configuration Structure is the data structure that declares
> the data format which can be used to describe the configuration of core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schema of Configuration Structure describes
the data format which can be used to describe the configuration of core
```
Using describe twice with different meaning is awkward, but I've never seen declare used in this way.

> and hart features. Configuration Structure is typically grouping base on the extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and hart features. Configuration Structure is typically grouped by extension.
```

The schema allows to support the next generation of extensions and OEM
extensions, however still backward compatible with the previous versions of

> extensions.

Reviewer: OEM extensions are a feature of the schema.
Backwards compatibility is a feature of the binary format. That description should go into the binary format section.

Author: ok, will revise this.

> To accommodate minimal on-chip descriptions on small systems, and larger
> descriptions for other use cases implementation decisions are divided into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accommodate minimal on-chip descriptions on small systems and larger
descriptions for other use cases, implementation decisions are divided into
```

hardware triggers supported, ...
2. ((Secondary)) information is discoverable but not straightforward (e.g. WARL
register). Examples: whether the F extension is supported, ...
3. Anything else goes in the ((Complete)) section. Examples: the value of XLEN,
...

=== Contents of Configuration Structure

The Configuration Structure contains a static description of a hardware
platform. The static descriptions are the values that made follow the
schema of Configuration Structure. It describes, in varying levels of detail, the
implementation decisions made by the hardware designer. The description is
static and is not affected by the current state of the system.

==== Human-Readable Format

ASN.1 defines a value syntax, but it's not well-supported among open source
solutions. For now we propose using https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.697/en[ASN.1
((JER))], which is a JSON representation of the ASN.1 value.

In the future, we should be able to accept YAML with little extra work, and the
big immediate benefit of a format that supports comments.

==== Machine-Readable Format

A binary-encoded representation of a conﬁguration is made available to software

> that is running on the system.

Reviewer: OK, but that's not a feature of the format. I think this is already addressed in the Access Method section.

Author: Sounds reasonable. I will remove this and maybe add something to the Access Method section.

the following three categories:

1. ((Primary)) information is only discoverable by reading the configuration
structure, or by running a significant amount of code. Examples: the number of
hardware triggers supported, ...
2. ((Secondary)) information is discoverable but not straightforward (e.g. WARL
register). Examples: whether the F extension is supported, ...
3. Anything else goes in the ((Complete)) section. Examples: the value of XLEN,
...

=== Contents of Configuration Structure

The Configuration Structure contains a static description of a hardware
platform. The static descriptions are the values that made follow the
schema of Configuration Structure. It describes, in varying levels of detail, the
implementation decisions made by the hardware designer. The description is
static and is not affected by the current state of the system.

==== Human-Readable Format

ASN.1 defines a value syntax, but it's not well-supported among open source
solutions. https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.697/en[ASN.1
((JER))] which is a JSON representation of the ASN.1 value that used as
Human-Readable format for the content of Configuration Structure.

> The Human-Readable format is backward compatible when the new extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Human-Readable format is backward compatible when new extensions
```

Author: Thanks for these comments to make the sentence better :).

Author: Resolved in V4

are introduced to Configuration Structure schema.

In the future, we should be able to accept YAML with little extra work, and the
big immediate benefit of a format that supports comments.

==== Machine-Readable Format

The Human-readable format is encoded to the binary using the standardized
unaligned packed encoding rules (unaligned PER,
see https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.691/en[ASN.1 ((UPER))], which is very compact.

> The format of binray is backward compatible when the new extensions are introduced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The binary format is backward compatible when new extensions are introduced
```

Author: Resolved in V4

ensure that each hart can read a configuration structure that describes its own
capabilities.

How to discover information about each hart in a socketed system is an open
question. Presumably each chip contains a structure it describes itself. It
would be nice to have some definition of a motherboard configuration structure,
which could contain pointers to the configuration structures in each chip.  That
feels outside the scope of what the RISC-V Foundation defines, however.

[[sec:ExternalIndustrialStandard]]
== External Industrial Standards

> [index]

Reviewer: Why remove the index?

Author: Ah, Ｉthought this is something like TOC. What is this for? I can revert this back.

Reviewer: It's an index. It can contain terms and the pages they are mentioned on. It looks like github's adoc preview doesn't support it, but if you generate a PDF then you do see it.

Terms in double parentheses like ((this)) end up in the index.

ensure that each hart can read a configuration structure that describes its own
capabilities.

[[sec:ExternalIndustrialStandard]]
== External Industrial Standards

https://www.devicetree.org/specifications/[DeviceTree v0.3] +
https://uefi.org/specifications[ACPI v6.3] +
https://www.dmtf.org/standards/smbios[SMBIOS v3.5.0] +
https://github.com/riscv/riscv-smbios/blob/master/riscv-smbios.adoc[RISC-V SMBIOS Type 44H]

> - [index]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Index
[index]
```
